tools/kafka/docker-compose/README.adoc, before:

== Docker Compose scripts for Kafka

[#run_kafka_cluster]
=== Kafka Cluster
Runs a multi-node Kafka cluster w/ 3 brokers available at `locahost:9091,localhost:9092,localhost:9093`.

To start the brokers run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml up
----
To stop the brokers run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml down
----

TIP: To start the containers in the foreground simply add `-d` to the start command. To stop containers that are running in the foreground simple issue `CTRL-C` command.

Running a quick test:

Now that we started our clusters, let us try to produce data to a topic on the cluster and then consume from it.

To produce data to a topic named `input-topic`:

```
docker exec -it broker1 /bin/kafka-console-producer --bootstrap-server localhost:29091 --topic input-topic
```

Note the use of bootstrap-server at `localhost:29091`.
This port is internal to the docker container.

To consume from the `input-topic`:

```
docker exec -it broker1 /bin/kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:29091 --topic input-topic
```

Enter some data on the producer console and hit enter, you should see the same data gets echoed on the consumer console.

=== Control Center UI
Runs a https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/control-center/index.html[Confluent Control Center] that exposes a UI at http://locahost:9021.

NOTE: The scripts must be chained together as the UI depends on the brokers

To start the brokers and the Control Center UI run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml -f ./control-center-ui.yml up
----
To stop the brokers and the Control Center UI run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml -f ./control-center-ui.yml down
----

=== Schema Registry
Runs a https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/schema-registry/index.html[Confluent Schema Registry] available at http://locahost:8081.

NOTE: The scripts must be chained together as the schema registry depends on the brokers

To start the brokers and the schema registry run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml -f ./schema-registry.yml up
----
To stop the brokers and the schema registry run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml -f ./schema-registry.yml down
----

[#_all_the_things]
=== All The Things
The scripts can be chained together to start the cluster, UI and schema registry with the following commmand:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f kafka-cluster.yml -f ./control-center-ui.yml -f ./schema-registry.yml up
----
Likewise, to stop all the things:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f kafka-cluster.yml -f ./control-center-ui.yml -f ./schema-registry.yml down
----

TIP: The only "UI" representation of the schema registry is by navigating to a `Topic` and then clicking the `Schema` tab for the topic

Commit message:

Adding Kafka docker-compose script for kraft

tools/kafka/docker-compose/README.adoc, after:

== Docker Compose scripts for Kafka

[#run_kafka_cluster]
=== Kafka Cluster
Runs a multi-node Kafka cluster w/ 3 brokers available at `locahost:9091,localhost:9092,localhost:9093`.

To start the brokers using zookeeper for leader election, run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml up
----
To stop the brokers run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml down
----

TIP: To start the containers in the foreground simply add `-d` to the start command. To stop containers that are running in the foreground simple issue `CTRL-C` command.

To start a single node Kafka cluster using the `kraft` protocol, use the `kraft.yml` file instead.

Running a quick test:

Now that we started our clusters, let us try to produce data to a topic on the cluster and then consume from it.

To produce data to a topic named `input-topic`:

```
docker exec -it broker1 /bin/kafka-console-producer --bootstrap-server localhost:29091 --topic input-topic
```

Note the use of bootstrap-server at `localhost:29091`.
This port is internal to the docker container.

To consume from the `input-topic`:

```
docker exec -it broker1 /bin/kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:29091 --topic input-topic
```

Enter some data on the producer console and hit enter, you should see the same data gets echoed on the consumer console.

=== Control Center UI
Runs a https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/control-center/index.html[Confluent Control Center] that exposes a UI at http://locahost:9021.

NOTE: The scripts must be chained together as the UI depends on the brokers

To start the brokers and the Control Center UI run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml -f ./control-center-ui.yml up
----
To stop the brokers and the Control Center UI run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml -f ./control-center-ui.yml down
----

=== Schema Registry
Runs a https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/schema-registry/index.html[Confluent Schema Registry] available at http://locahost:8081.

NOTE: The scripts must be chained together as the schema registry depends on the brokers

To start the brokers and the schema registry run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml -f ./schema-registry.yml up
----
To stop the brokers and the schema registry run the following command:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f ./kafka-cluster.yml -f ./schema-registry.yml down
----

[#_all_the_things]
=== All The Things
The scripts can be chained together to start the cluster, UI and schema registry with the following commmand:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f kafka-cluster.yml -f ./control-center-ui.yml -f ./schema-registry.yml up
----
Likewise, to stop all the things:
[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f kafka-cluster.yml -f ./control-center-ui.yml -f ./schema-registry.yml down
----

TIP: The only "UI" representation of the schema registry is by navigating to a `Topic` and then clicking the `Schema` tab for the topic
