docs/modules/ROOT/pages/kafka/kafka-streams-binder/configuration-options.adoc, before:

[[configuration-options]]
= Configuration Options

This section contains the configuration options used by the Kafka Streams binder.

For common configuration options and properties pertaining to binder, refer to the xref:spring-cloud-stream/binding-properties.adoc[core documentation].

[[kafka-streams-binder-properties]]
== Kafka Streams Binder Properties

The following properties are available at the binder level and must be prefixed with `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.`
Any Kafka binder provided properties re-used in Kafka Streams binder must be prefixed with `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder` instead of `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder`.
The only exception to this rule is when defining the Kafka bootstrap server property in which case either prefix works.

configuration::
Map with a key/value pair containing properties pertaining to Apache Kafka Streams API.
This property must be prefixed with `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.`.
Following are some examples of using this property.

[source]
----
spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.configuration.default.key.serde=org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.Serdes$StringSerde
spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.configuration.default.value.serde=org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.Serdes$StringSerde
spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.configuration.commit.interval.ms=1000
----

For more information about all the properties that may go into streams configuration, see `StreamsConfig` JavaDocs in Apache Kafka Streams docs.
All configuration that you can set from `StreamsConfig` can be set through this.
When using this property, it is applicable against the entire application since this is a binder level property.
If you have more than one processor in the application, all of them will acquire these properties.
In the case of properties like `application.id`, this will become problematic and therefore you have to carefully examine how the properties from `StreamsConfig` are mapped using this binder level `configuration` property.

functions.<function-bean-name>.applicationId::
Applicable only for functional style processors.
This can be used for setting application ID per function in the application.
In the case of multiple functions, this is a handy way to set the application ID.

functions.<function-bean-name>.configuration::
Applicable only for functional style processors.
Map with a key/value pair containing properties pertaining to Apache Kafka Streams API.
This is similar to the binder level `configuration` property describe above, but this level of `configuration` property is restricted only against the named function.
When you have multiple processors and you want to restrict access to the configuration based on particular functions, you might want to use this.
All `StreamsConfig` properties can be used here.

brokers::
Broker URL
+
Default: `localhost`
zkNodes::
Zookeeper URL
+
Default: `localhost`

deserializationExceptionHandler::
Deserialization error handler type.
This handler is applied at the binder level and thus applied against all input binding in the application.
There is a way to control it in a more fine-grained way at the consumer binding level.
Possible values are - `logAndContinue`, `logAndFail`, `skipAndContinue` or `sendToDlq`
+
Default: `logAndFail`

applicationId::
Convenient way to set the application.id for the Kafka Streams application globally at the binder level.
If the application contains multiple functions, then the application id should be set differently.
See above where setting the application id is discussed in detail.
+
Default: application will generate a static application ID. See the application ID section for more details.

stateStoreRetry.maxAttempts::
Max attempts for trying to connect to a state store.
+
Default: 1

stateStoreRetry.backoffPeriod::
Backoff period when trying to connect to a state store on a retry.
+
Default: 1000 ms

consumerProperties::
Arbitrary consumer properties at the binder level.

producerProperties::
Arbitrary producer properties at the binder level.

includeStoppedProcessorsForHealthCheck::
When bindings for processors are stopped through actuator, then this processor will not participate in the health check by default.
Set this property to `true` to enable health check for all processors including the ones that are currently stopped through bindings actuator endpoint.
+
Default: false

[[kafka-streams-producer-properties]]
== Kafka Streams Producer Properties

The following properties are _only_ available for Kafka Streams producers and must be prefixed with `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.bindings.<binding name>.producer.`
For convenience, if there are multiple output bindings and they all require a common value, that can be configured by using the prefix `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.default.producer.`.

keySerde::
key serde to use
+
Default: See the above discussion on message de/serialization

valueSerde::
value serde to use
+
Default: See the above discussion on message de/serialization

useNativeEncoding::
flag to enable/disable native encoding
+
Default: `true`.

streamPartitionerBeanName::
Custom outbound partitioner bean name to be used at the consumer.
Applications can provide custom `StreamPartitioner` as a Spring bean and the name of this bean can be provided to the producer to use instead of the default one.
+
Default: See the discussion above on outbound partition support.

producedAs::
Custom name for the sink component to which the processor is producing to.
+
Default: `none` (generated by Kafka Streams)

[[kafka-streams-consumer-properties]]
== Kafka Streams Consumer Properties

The following properties are available for Kafka Streams consumers and must be prefixed with `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.bindings.<binding-name>.consumer.`
For convenience, if there are multiple input bindings and they all require a common value, that can be configured by using the prefix `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.default.consumer.`.

applicationId::
Setting application.id per input binding.
+
Default: See above.

keySerde::
key serde to use
+
Default: See the above discussion on message de/serialization

valueSerde::
value serde to use
+
Default: See the above discussion on message de/serialization

materializedAs::
state store to materialize when using incoming KTable types
+
Default: `none`.

useNativeDecoding::
flag to enable/disable native decoding
+
Default: `true`.

dlqName::
DLQ topic name.
+
Default: See above on the discussion of error handling and DLQ.

startOffset::
Offset to start from if there is no committed offset to consume from.
This is mostly used when the consumer is consuming from a topic for the first time.
Kafka Streams uses `earliest` as the default strategy and the binder uses the same default.
This can be overridden to `latest` using this property.
+
Default: `earliest`.

Note: Using `resetOffsets` on the consumer does not have any effect on Kafka Streams binder.
Unlike the message channel based binder, Kafka Streams binder does not seek to beginning or end on demand.

deserializationExceptionHandler::
Deserialization error handler type.
This handler is applied per consumer binding as opposed to the binder level property described before.
Possible values are - `logAndContinue`, `logAndFail`, `skipAndContinue` or `sendToDlq`
+
Default: `logAndFail`

timestampExtractorBeanName::
Specific time stamp extractor bean name to be used at the consumer.
Applications can provide `TimestampExtractor` as a Spring bean and the name of this bean can be provided to the consumer to use instead of the default one.
+
Default: See the discussion above on timestamp extractors.

eventTypes::
Comma separated list of supported event types for this binding.
+
Default: `none`

eventTypeHeaderKey::
Event type header key on each incoming records through this binding.
+
Default: `event_type`

consumedAs::
Custom name for the source component from which the processor is consuming from.
+
Deafult: `none` (generated by Kafka Streams)

[[special-note-on-concurrency]]
== Special note on concurrency

In Kafka Streams, you can control of the number of threads a processor can create using the `num.stream.threads` property.
This, you can do using the various `configuration` options described above under binder, functions, producer or consumer level.
You can also use the `concurrency` property that core Spring Cloud Stream provides for this purpose.
When using this, you need to use it on the consumer.
When you have more than one input binding, set this on the first input binding.
For e.g. when setting `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.process-in-0.consumer.concurrency`, it will be translated as `num.stream.threads` by the binder.
If you have multiple processors and one processor defines binding level concurrency, but not the others, those ones with no binding level concurrency will default back to the binder wide property specified through
`spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.configuration.num.stream.threads`.
If this binder configuration is not available, then the application will use the default set by Kafka Streams.

Commit message:

Add caching and logging control options for KTable materialization
- Add cachingDisabled and loggingDisabled properties to KafkaStreamsConsumerProperties
- Update getMaterialized method to apply caching and logging settings
- Fixes gh-3094

Signed-off-by: gihong-park <dev.gihong2012@gmail.com>

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/kafka/kafka-streams-binder/configuration-options.adoc, after:

[[configuration-options]]
= Configuration Options

This section contains the configuration options used by the Kafka Streams binder.

For common configuration options and properties pertaining to binder, refer to the xref:spring-cloud-stream/binding-properties.adoc[core documentation].

[[kafka-streams-binder-properties]]
== Kafka Streams Binder Properties

The following properties are available at the binder level and must be prefixed with `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.`
Any Kafka binder provided properties re-used in Kafka Streams binder must be prefixed with `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder` instead of `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.binder`.
The only exception to this rule is when defining the Kafka bootstrap server property in which case either prefix works.

configuration::
Map with a key/value pair containing properties pertaining to Apache Kafka Streams API.
This property must be prefixed with `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.`.
Following are some examples of using this property.

[source]
----
spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.configuration.default.key.serde=org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.Serdes$StringSerde
spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.configuration.default.value.serde=org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.Serdes$StringSerde
spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.configuration.commit.interval.ms=1000
----

For more information about all the properties that may go into streams configuration, see `StreamsConfig` JavaDocs in Apache Kafka Streams docs.
All configuration that you can set from `StreamsConfig` can be set through this.
When using this property, it is applicable against the entire application since this is a binder level property.
If you have more than one processor in the application, all of them will acquire these properties.
In the case of properties like `application.id`, this will become problematic and therefore you have to carefully examine how the properties from `StreamsConfig` are mapped using this binder level `configuration` property.

functions.<function-bean-name>.applicationId::
Applicable only for functional style processors.
This can be used for setting application ID per function in the application.
In the case of multiple functions, this is a handy way to set the application ID.

functions.<function-bean-name>.configuration::
Applicable only for functional style processors.
Map with a key/value pair containing properties pertaining to Apache Kafka Streams API.
This is similar to the binder level `configuration` property describe above, but this level of `configuration` property is restricted only against the named function.
When you have multiple processors and you want to restrict access to the configuration based on particular functions, you might want to use this.
All `StreamsConfig` properties can be used here.

brokers::
Broker URL
+
Default: `localhost`
zkNodes::
Zookeeper URL
+
Default: `localhost`

deserializationExceptionHandler::
Deserialization error handler type.
This handler is applied at the binder level and thus applied against all input binding in the application.
There is a way to control it in a more fine-grained way at the consumer binding level.
Possible values are - `logAndContinue`, `logAndFail`, `skipAndContinue` or `sendToDlq`
+
Default: `logAndFail`

applicationId::
Convenient way to set the application.id for the Kafka Streams application globally at the binder level.
If the application contains multiple functions, then the application id should be set differently.
See above where setting the application id is discussed in detail.
+
Default: application will generate a static application ID. See the application ID section for more details.

stateStoreRetry.maxAttempts::
Max attempts for trying to connect to a state store.
+
Default: 1

stateStoreRetry.backoffPeriod::
Backoff period when trying to connect to a state store on a retry.
+
Default: 1000 ms

consumerProperties::
Arbitrary consumer properties at the binder level.

producerProperties::
Arbitrary producer properties at the binder level.

includeStoppedProcessorsForHealthCheck::
When bindings for processors are stopped through actuator, then this processor will not participate in the health check by default.
Set this property to `true` to enable health check for all processors including the ones that are currently stopped through bindings actuator endpoint.
+
Default: false

[[kafka-streams-producer-properties]]
== Kafka Streams Producer Properties

The following properties are _only_ available for Kafka Streams producers and must be prefixed with `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.bindings.<binding name>.producer.`
For convenience, if there are multiple output bindings and they all require a common value, that can be configured by using the prefix `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.default.producer.`.

keySerde::
key serde to use
+
Default: See the above discussion on message de/serialization

valueSerde::
value serde to use
+
Default: See the above discussion on message de/serialization

useNativeEncoding::
flag to enable/disable native encoding
+
Default: `true`.

streamPartitionerBeanName::
Custom outbound partitioner bean name to be used at the consumer.
Applications can provide custom `StreamPartitioner` as a Spring bean and the name of this bean can be provided to the producer to use instead of the default one.
+
Default: See the discussion above on outbound partition support.

producedAs::
Custom name for the sink component to which the processor is producing to.
+
Default: `none` (generated by Kafka Streams)

[[kafka-streams-consumer-properties]]
== Kafka Streams Consumer Properties

The following properties are available for Kafka Streams consumers and must be prefixed with `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.bindings.<binding-name>.consumer.`
For convenience, if there are multiple input bindings and they all require a common value, that can be configured by using the prefix `spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.default.consumer.`.

applicationId::
Setting application.id per input binding.
+
Default: See above.

keySerde::
key serde to use
+
Default: See the above discussion on message de/serialization

valueSerde::
value serde to use
+
Default: See the above discussion on message de/serialization

materializedAs::
state store to materialize when using incoming KTable types
+
Default: `none`.

cachingDisabled::
Disable caching for materialized KTable.
When set to `true`, calls `withCachingDisabled()` on the Materialized object.
When set to `false`, calls `withCachingEnabled()` on the Materialized object.
+
Default: `false`.

loggingDisabled::
Disable logging for materialized KTable.
When set to `true`, calls `withLoggingDisabled()` on the Materialized object.
+
Default: `false`.

useNativeDecoding::
flag to enable/disable native decoding
+
Default: `true`.

dlqName::
DLQ topic name.
+
Default: See above on the discussion of error handling and DLQ.

startOffset::
Offset to start from if there is no committed offset to consume from.
This is mostly used when the consumer is consuming from a topic for the first time.
Kafka Streams uses `earliest` as the default strategy and the binder uses the same default.
This can be overridden to `latest` using this property.
+
Default: `earliest`.

Note: Using `resetOffsets` on the consumer does not have any effect on Kafka Streams binder.
Unlike the message channel based binder, Kafka Streams binder does not seek to beginning or end on demand.

deserializationExceptionHandler::
Deserialization error handler type.
This handler is applied per consumer binding as opposed to the binder level property described before.
Possible values are - `logAndContinue`, `logAndFail`, `skipAndContinue` or `sendToDlq`
+
Default: `logAndFail`

timestampExtractorBeanName::
Specific time stamp extractor bean name to be used at the consumer.
Applications can provide `TimestampExtractor` as a Spring bean and the name of this bean can be provided to the consumer to use instead of the default one.
+
Default: See the discussion above on timestamp extractors.

eventTypes::
Comma separated list of supported event types for this binding.
+
Default: `none`

eventTypeHeaderKey::
Event type header key on each incoming records through this binding.
+
Default: `event_type`

consumedAs::
Custom name for the source component from which the processor is consuming from.
+
Deafult: `none` (generated by Kafka Streams)

[[special-note-on-concurrency]]
== Special note on concurrency

In Kafka Streams, you can control of the number of threads a processor can create using the `num.stream.threads` property.
This, you can do using the various `configuration` options described above under binder, functions, producer or consumer level.
You can also use the `concurrency` property that core Spring Cloud Stream provides for this purpose.
When using this, you need to use it on the consumer.
When you have more than one input binding, set this on the first input binding.
For e.g. when setting `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.process-in-0.consumer.concurrency`, it will be translated as `num.stream.threads` by the binder.
If you have multiple processors and one processor defines binding level concurrency, but not the others, those ones with no binding level concurrency will default back to the binder wide property specified through
`spring.cloud.stream.kafka.streams.binder.configuration.num.stream.threads`.
If this binder configuration is not available, then the application will use the default set by Kafka Streams.
