docs/modules/ROOT/pages/kafka/kafka-binder/consume-batches.adoc, before:

= Consuming Batches

Starting with version 3.0, when `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.<name>.consumer.batch-mode` is set to `true`, all of the records received by polling the Kafka `Consumer` will be presented as a `List<?>` to the listener method.
Otherwise, the method will be called with one record at a time.
The size of the batch is controlled by Kafka consumer properties `max.poll.records`, `fetch.min.bytes`, `fetch.max.wait.ms`; refer to the Kafka documentation for more information.

Starting with version `4.0.2`, the binder supports DLQ capabilities when consuming in batch mode.
Keep in mind that, when using DLQ on a consumer binding that is in batch mode, all the records received from the previous poll will be delivered to the DLQ topic.

IMPORTANT: Retry within the binder is not supported when using batch mode, so `maxAttempts` will be overridden to 1.
You can configure a `DefaultErrorHandler` (using a `ListenerContainerCustomizer`) to achieve similar functionality to retry in the binder.
You can also use a manual `AckMode` and call `Ackowledgment.nack(index, sleep)` to commit the offsets for a partial batch and have the remaining records redelivered.
Refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-kafka/docs/2.3.15.BUILD-SNAPSHOT/reference/html/#committing-offsets[Spring for Apache Kafka documentation] for more information about these techniques.

Commit message:

Clarify batch-consuming docs for Kafka binder
Based on this issue: https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-stream/issues/2917

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/kafka/kafka-binder/consume-batches.adoc, after:

= Consuming Batches

Starting with version 3.0, when `spring.cloud.stream.bindings.<name>.consumer.batch-mode` is set to `true`, all of the records received by polling the Kafka `Consumer` will be presented as a `List<?>` to the listener method.
Otherwise, the method will be called with one record at a time.
The size of the batch is controlled by Kafka consumer properties `max.poll.records`, `fetch.min.bytes`, `fetch.max.wait.ms`; refer to the Kafka documentation for more information.

When receiving the batches, the following type signatures are allowed:

```
List<Person>
Message<List<Person>
```

In the first option of `List<Person>`, the listener will not get any message headers.
If the second type signature (`Message<List<Person>>`) is used, then the headers can be accessed; however, all the headers are still be in the form of a `Collection`.
Let's take the following example.

Assume that the `Message` contains a list with ten `Person` objects.
The `MessageHeaders` of the `Message` contains a map of headers with key as the header name and value as a list.
This list contains the header value for that header in the same order as the payload list.
Therefore, it is up to the application to correctly access the header from the `MessageHeaders` map based on the iteration of the payload list.

Note that, type signatures in the form of `List<Message<Person>>` is not allowed when consuming in batch-mode.

Starting with version `4.0.2`, the binder supports DLQ capabilities when consuming in batch mode.
Keep in mind that, when using DLQ on a consumer binding that is in batch mode, all the records received from the previous poll will be delivered to the DLQ topic.

IMPORTANT: Retry within the binder is not supported when using batch mode, so `maxAttempts` will be overridden to 1.
You can configure a `DefaultErrorHandler` (using a `ListenerContainerCustomizer`) to achieve similar functionality to retry in the binder.
You can also use a manual `AckMode` and call `Ackowledgment.nack(index, sleep)` to commit the offsets for a partial batch and have the remaining records redelivered.
Refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-kafka/reference/kafka/receiving-messages/message-listener-container.html#committing-offsets[Spring for Apache Kafka documentation] for more information about these techniques.

NOTE: When receiving `KafkaNull` objects in the batch-mode, the received list will contain a null element for the corresponding `KafkaNull` object.
This is true for both `List<Person` and `Message<List<Person>` style type signatures.
