docs/modules/ROOT/pages/kafka/kafka-binder/reset-offsets.adoc, before:

[[reset-offsets]]
= Resetting Offsets

When an application starts, the initial position in each assigned partition depends on two properties `startOffset` and `resetOffsets`.
If `resetOffsets` is `false`, normal Kafka consumer https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#consumerconfigs_auto.offset.reset[`auto.offset.reset`] semantics apply.
i.e. If there is no committed offset for a partition for the binding's consumer group, the position is `earliest` or `latest`.
By default, bindings with an explicit `group` use `earliest`, and anonymous bindings (with no `group`) use `latest`.
These defaults can be overridden by setting the `startOffset` binding property.
There will be no committed offset(s) the first time the binding is started with a particular `group`.
The other condition where no committed offset exists is if the offset has been expired.
With modern brokers (since 2.1), and default broker properties, the offsets are expired 7 days after the last member leaves the group.
See the https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#brokerconfigs_offsets.retention.minutes[`offsets.retention.minutes`] broker property for more information.

When `resetOffsets` is `true`, the binder applies similar semantics to those that apply when there is no committed offset on the broker, as if this binding has never consumed from the topic; i.e. any current committed offset is ignored.

Following are two use cases when this might be used.

1. Consuming from a compacted topic containing key/value pairs.
Set `resetOffsets` to `true` and `startOffset` to `earliest`; the binding will perform a `seekToBeginning` on all newly assigned partitions.

2. Consuming from a topic containing events, where you are only interested in events that occur while this binding is running.
Set `resetOffsets` to `true` and `startOffset` to `latest`; the binding will perform a `seekToEnd` on all newly assigned partitions.

IMPORTANT: If a rebalance occurs after the initial assignment, the seeks will only be performed on any newly assigned partitions that were not assigned during the initial assignment.

For more control over topic offsets, see <<rebalance-listener>>; when a listener is provided, `resetOffsets` should not be set to `true`, otherwise, that will cause an error.

Commit message:

Kafka binder docs cleanup
Fixing a few broken links in config options docs

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/kafka/kafka-binder/reset-offsets.adoc, after:

[[reset-offsets]]
= Resetting Offsets

When an application starts, the initial position in each assigned partition depends on two properties `startOffset` and `resetOffsets`.
If `resetOffsets` is `false`, normal Kafka consumer https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#consumerconfigs_auto.offset.reset[`auto.offset.reset`] semantics apply.
i.e. If there is no committed offset for a partition for the binding's consumer group, the position is `earliest` or `latest`.
By default, bindings with an explicit `group` use `earliest`, and anonymous bindings (with no `group`) use `latest`.
These defaults can be overridden by setting the `startOffset` binding property.
There will be no committed offset(s) the first time the binding is started with a particular `group`.
The other condition where no committed offset exists is if the offset has been expired.
With modern brokers (since 2.1), and default broker properties, the offsets are expired 7 days after the last member leaves the group.
See the https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#brokerconfigs_offsets.retention.minutes[`offsets.retention.minutes`] broker property for more information.

When `resetOffsets` is `true`, the binder applies similar semantics to those that apply when there is no committed offset on the broker, as if this binding has never consumed from the topic; i.e. any current committed offset is ignored.

Following are two use cases when this might be used.

1. Consuming from a compacted topic containing key/value pairs.
Set `resetOffsets` to `true` and `startOffset` to `earliest`; the binding will perform a `seekToBeginning` on all newly assigned partitions.

2. Consuming from a topic containing events, where you are only interested in events that occur while this binding is running.
Set `resetOffsets` to `true` and `startOffset` to `latest`; the binding will perform a `seekToEnd` on all newly assigned partitions.

IMPORTANT: If a rebalance occurs after the initial assignment, the seeks will only be performed on any newly assigned partitions that were not assigned during the initial assignment.

For more control over topic offsets, see xref:kafka/kafka-binder/rebalance_listener.adoc[rebalance listener]; when a listener is provided, `resetOffsets` should not be set to `true`, otherwise, that will cause an error.
